Add volume backup and restore tutorial (#49452)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/tutorials/storage-management/volume-backup-restore.md

---
title: Volume Backup, Delete and Restore 
content_type: tutorial
weight: 10
---

<!-- overview -->
This tutorial provides an introduction for taking backups of a volume and restoring it. It demonstrates how to create, delete, and restore the volume using [gzip](https://www.gnu.org/software/gzip/).

## {{% heading "prerequisites" %}}
Before you begin this tutorial, you should be familiar with the following Kubernetes concepts:

* [Pods](/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/)
* [PersistentVolumes](/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/)
* The [kubectl](/docs/reference/kubectl/kubectl/) command line tool

## {{% heading "prerequisites" %}}

* You need to have a Kubernetes cluster that has only one Node, and the
  {{< glossary_tooltip text="kubectl" term_id="kubectl" >}}
  command-line tool must be configured to communicate with your cluster. If you
  do not already have a single-node cluster, you can create one by using
  [Minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/).

* Familiarize yourself with the material in

>   [Persistent Volumes](/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/).

Reviewer: Why are there two prerequisites sections?

## {{% heading "objectives" %}}
After this tutorial, you will be familiar with the following:
1. Understanding the importance of volume backups
1. Backing up kubernetes volumes
1. Deleting and recreating volumes
1. Restoring applications with backed-up data
1. Practical workflow for backup and restore

> ## Configure Persistent Volume and Persistent Volume Claim

Reviewer: Follow the style guide here if you can.

> Use the existing yaml file from the [Configure a Pod to Use a PersistentVolume for Storage](/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-persistent-volume-storage/) task to configure PersistentVolume (PV) and PersistentVolumeClaim (PVC). Then follow the steps from the beginning, to create a `hostpath` and `index.html` file as well.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure what you mean by "follow the steps from the beginning". I'm already thinking, "Do you mean, from the beginning of this page, or the beginning of the page in the URL?

Here's my suggestion for you.
```suggestion
Follow the steps in the [Configure a Pod to Use a PersistentVolume for Storage](/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-persistent-volume-storage/)
task to create an `index.html` file, a PersistentVolume (PV), and PersistentVolumeClaim (PVC).
```

task-pv-volume   10Gi       RWO           Retain          Available             manual                   4s
```

After you create the PersistentVolumeClaim, the Kubernetes controlplane looks
for a PersistentVolume that satisfies the claim's requirements. If the controlplane finds a
suitable PersistentVolume with the same StorageClass, it binds the
claim to the volume.

Look again at the PersistentVolume:

```shell
kubectl get pv task-pv-volume
```

Now the output shows a `STATUS` of `Bound`.

```
NAME             CAPACITY   ACCESSMODES   RECLAIMPOLICY   STATUS    CLAIM                   STORAGECLASS   REASON    AGE
task-pv-volume   10Gi       RWO           Retain          Bound     default/task-pv-claim   manual                   2m
```

Look at the PersistentVolumeClaim:

```shell
kubectl get pvc task-pv-claim
```

The output shows that the PersistentVolumeClaim is bound to your PersistentVolume,
`task-pv-volume`.

```
NAME            STATUS    VOLUME           CAPACITY   ACCESSMODES   STORAGECLASS   AGE
task-pv-claim   Bound     task-pv-volume   10Gi       RWO           manual         30s
```

## Create a Pod

> The next step is to create a Pod that uses your PersistentVolumeClaim as a volume.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The next step is to create a Pod running an httpd server that uses your PersistentVolumeClaim as a volume.
```

Here is the configuration file for the Pod:

{{% code_sample file="pods/storage/pv-pod-backup.yaml" %}}

Notice that the Pod's configuration file specifies a PersistentVolumeClaim, but it does not specify a PersistentVolume. From the Pod's point of view, the claim is a volume.

Create the Pod:

```shell
kubectl apply -f https://k8s.io/examples/pods/storage/pv-pod-backup.yaml
```

Verify that the container in the Pod is running;

```shell
kubectl get pod pv-pod-backup
```

Get a shell to the container running in your Pod:

```shell
kubectl exec -it pv-pod-backup -- /bin/bash
```

> In your shell, verify that httpd:2.4 is serving the `index.html` file from the

Reviewer 2: Why not say,  "the httpd server", rather than specifying it with the image tag so it's comprehensible?
```suggestion
In your shell, verify that the httpd server is serving the `index.html` file from the
```

hostPath volume:

```shell
# Be sure to run these 3 commands inside the root shell that comes from
# running "kubectl exec" in the previous step
apt update
apt install curl
curl http://localhost/
```

The output shows the text that you wrote to the `index.html` file on the
hostPath volume:

```
Hello from Kubernetes storage
```

If you see that message, you have successfully configured a Pod to
use storage from a PersistentVolumeClaim.

## {{% heading "backup" %}}

### Create Backup

> The process involves accessing the pod to interact with its file system, navigating to the mounted volume directory ```(/usr/local/apache2/htdocs)``` containing the data to be backed-up, and compressing the directory contents into a ```.tar.gz``` file stored in the pod's temporary directory ```(/tmp)```. After exiting the pod shell, the backup file is transferred to the local machine using ```kubectl cp```, ensuring the data is securely saved outside the pod environment for restoration or safekeeping.

Reviewer 2: Markdown supports a single backtick for one line of code. You can use triple backticks for a multi-line code.

```suggestion
The process involves accessing the Pod to interact with its file system, navigating to the mounted volume directory
`(/usr/local/apache2/htdocs)` containing the data to be backed-up, and compressing the directory contents into a
`.tar.gz` file stored in the Pod's temporary directory `(/tmp)`. After exiting the Pod shell, the backup file is transferred to the local machine using `kubectl cp`, ensuring the data is securely saved outside the pod environment for restoration or safekeeping.
```

**Access the Pod:** 

> To start the backup process, first, access the pod that has the volume you want to back up:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To start the backup process, first, access the Pod that has the volume you want to back up:
```

```shell
kubectl exec -it pv-pod-backup -- /bin/bash
```

> This command opens an interactive shell inside the specified pod (pv-pod-backup).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This command opens an interactive shell inside the specified Pod, `pv-pod-backup`.
```

**Navigate to the Mounted Volume Directory:**
Once inside the pod, navigate to the directory where the volume is mounted:
```shell
cd /usr/local/apache2/htdocs
```
This directory contains the data you wish to backup.

**Create a Compressed Backup File (gzip):**
Use the tar command to create a compressed backup file of the directory's contents:
```shell
tar -czvf /tmp/volume-backup.tar.gz .
```
**Exit the pod:**
After creating the backup file, exit the pod:
```
exit
```
**Copy the Backup to Local Machine:**

> Use ```kubectl cp``` to copy the backup file from the pod to your local system:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use ```kubectl cp``` to copy the backup file from the Pod to your local system:
```

```shell
kubectl cp pv-pod-backup:/tmp/volume-backup.tar.gz ./volume-backup.tar.gz
```

> This saves the backup file ```volume-backup.tar.gz``` in your current local directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This saves the backup file `volume-backup.tar.gz` in your current local directory.
```

### Delete the data from volume

>  To understand the backup use, The process involves accessing the pod to navigate to the mounted volume directory ```/usr/local/apache2/htdocs```, deleting all files and subdirectories within it using ```rm -rf *```, and verifying the deletion by listing the directory contents ```ls -l```. Finally, the pod shell is exited after confirming the directory is empty.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 To understand the backup use, The process involves accessing the pod to navigate to the mounted volume
 directory `/usr/local/apache2/htdocs`, deleting all files and subdirectories within it using `rm -rf *`, and verifying the
 deletion by listing the directory contents `ls -l`. Finally, the Pod shell is exited after confirming the directory is empty.
```

 
**Access the Pod Again:**

> To delete the data from the volume, access the pod that uses the volume:

Reviewer 2: See the [style-guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/style/style-guide/#use-upper-camel-case-for-api-objects).
```suggestion
To delete the data from the volume, access the Pod that uses the volume:
```

```shell
kubectl exec -it task-pv-pod -- /bin/bash
```
**Navigate to the Mounted Volume Directory:**

> Inside the pod, go to the directory where the volume is mounted:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Inside the Pod, go to the directory where the volume is mounted:
```

```shell
cd /usr/local/apache2/htdocs
```
**Delete All Files:**
Delete all files and subdirectories in the volume:
```shell
rm -rf *
```
**Verify the Deletion:**
List the contents of the directory to confirm if it is empty:
```shell
ls -l
```
If the deletion was successful, no files or directories will be listed.

**Exit the Pod:**
After verifying the deletion, exit the pod:
```shell
exit
```

### Restore the Backup Data

> The process involves copying the backup file (volume-backup.tar.gz) from the local machine to the pod's temporary directory using ```kubectl cp```. Then, access the pod shell, navigate to the mounted volume directory ```/usr/local/apache2/htdocs```, and extract the backup using ```tar```. Finally, verify the restored files with ```ls -l``` and exit the pod shell.

Reviewer 2: Long texts in one line are often separated into multiple lines. 
```suggestion
The process involves copying the backup file, `volume-backup.tar.gz`, from the local machine to the Pod's
temporary directory using `kubectl cp`. Then, accessing the pod's shell, navigating to the mounted volume directory
`/usr/local/apache2/htdocs`, and extracting the backup using `tar`. Finally, the restored files are verified using the `ls -l` command. The Pod can shell can be exited afterward.
```

> **Copy the Backup File to the Pod:**

Reviewer: This should be a subheading

Transfer the backup file from your local machine, back to the pod:
```shell
kubectl cp ./volume-backup.tar.gz pv-pod-backup:/tmp/volume-backup.tar.gz
```

> This copies the backup file to the /tmp directory of the pv-pod-backup pod.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This copies the backup file to the `/tmp` directory of the `pv-pod-backup` Pod.
```

> **Access the Pod:**

Reviewer: This should be a subheading

> Open an interactive shell inside the pod:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Open an interactive shell inside the Pod:
```

```shell
kubectl exec -it task-pv-pod -- /bin/bash
```

> **Extract the Backup:**

Reviewer: This should be a subheading

Navigate to the mounted volume directory and extract the backup:
```shell
cd /usr/local/apache2/htdocs
tar -xzvf /tmp/volume-backup.tar.gz
```

> **Verify the Restoration:** 

Reviewer: This should be a subheading

List the contents of the directory to confirm the files have been restored:
```shell
ls -l
```
If successful, you should see all the files and directories from the backup.

**Exit the Pod:**
```shell
exit
```
### Test the Restored Data

> Now Check the status of the Pod ```pv-pod-backup``` Whether it is in ```Running``` state or not. If it is in ```Running``` state then restoring the volume worked perfectly fine.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now Check the status of the `pv-pod-backup` Pod to see whether it is in a `Running` state or not. If it is in a `Running` state, then restoring the volume worked perfectly fine.
```

```shell
kubectl get pod pv-pod-backup -o wide
```

> Now You can again check the output by access the pods

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now You can again check the output by accessing the Pods shell
```

```shell
kubectl exec -it pv-pod-backup -- /bin/bash
```
To run the restored file run 
```shell
# Be sure to run these 3 commands inside the root shell that comes from
# running "kubectl exec" in the previous step
apt update
apt install curl
curl http://localhost/

> ```

Reviewer: You're not _running_ the file that has been restored.

Author: The restored file in this context is index.html. To verify its contents, I am using the command:
`curl http://localhost
`This displays the output stored within the file, ensuring that the restoration process was successful.

Reviewer: > To run the restored file run 

This is misleading or wrong.
